hello everyone NIF here and i wanted to
make a quick video today because I made
a video in the last few days but the one
problem is it was all about biomes in
the distribution and that sort of thing
funnily enough right after I made that
video I completely changed the whole
system for biomes so yeah it's kind of
funny
the reason being in like a simple way to
do biomes is with noise I was gonna do
that originally but then I decided not
to do that instead do this really
complicated thing using like variety
graphs and stuff and I thought that
would work that'd be good idea but I
tried for a long time coding it working
when I made the last video I had got it
working and I thought it was fine but
then I suddenly realize this big massive
glaring problem at had and it's like oh
this is just not gonna work so yeah so I
mean I probably could have worked on it
for Allah you know why longer I got it
working but it got to the point I was
like you know what screw it let's just
do noise so now I'm actually using like
the same kind of noisy's for the ground
and stuff I'm not using to generate the
biomes as well and the advantage of this
is it's number one very fast and number
two it gives you much smoother kind of
like curves and like edges to the biomes
which is nice and I've made the bottom
is quite small just to kind of show off
you know different biomes in this video
for them yet in the future they can be
any size really so yeah let's have a
look around so as you can see in the top
left this is a grasslands biome this is
kind of like your standard you know
Plains just plain grass nothing special
a few trees here and there but if you go
this way Tom Chisum we pretty much
immediately run to a taiga biome and
again you'll probably familiar with this
one from Minecraft because this one's
kind of like it's a bit colder but it's
still quite wet and I should mention
that all the biomes are done in terms of
basically just precipitation and
temperature so that's the two factors
that determine it so like whereas the
grasslands is kind of middle ish in both
if you go a little bit colder you get to
taiga and you have these pine trees and
some snow on the ground and stuff so
yeah which is nice and then if you keep
going you'll notice next from the taiga
we go into a tundra biome yeah this is
the coldest and the driest biome ready
and it can be quite
wet too but it's usually dry but
basically this is just a massive ice
biome and the thing you'll notice is
that like we came to this not from like
a hot desert but from an actual taiga
biome so it kind of makes more sense
that way and also you might notice that
the transition between them is quite
nice like there's no smooth kind of
transition but you get this nice kind of
like smooth curve and it's just looks
good yeah indeed and in the bottom we
have like ice-covered snow or snow cored
ice and just moist underneath that and
also this kind of shows off the fact
that the biomes kind of diff like when I
create a biome I can just define the
layers and they can go down as far as I
want to basically but I mean this takes
about ten blocks to hit stone but I
could very easily me to go down 30
blocks and have different types of rock
and stuff you know ed no it's cool
but yeah the the sign looks a bit weird
in this biome but again I'm just right
now I just implemented the biomes and
I'm just trying to figure out what I
should go in each biome so similar kind
of weird but yeah so if we move on from
this NYX will actually hit yeah so this
biome here is a desert but it's not a
hot desert this is a temperate desert so
it's kind of like you know in America
you'd have like deserts that are not
like scalding hot they'd still have like
you know just kind of like dirt in them
little bit of like ghost and sand on top
and you might get them in Australia as
well but and these are kind of more
common these deserts I think anyway and
so this one like I said it kinda has
this kind of dirt kind of like covered
in dust it was good we also have
cactuses they look kind of terrible but
I'm yeah they're a thing I did this in
like five minutes they just I know they
look bad I don't care it's a temporary
placeholder so yeah cactus and moving on
from that and so I mean again the way
these are done now is like beside one of
these we can have a hot desert but we
won't have a hot desert beside like a
tundra biome you know except make sense
in fact even here this Tundra
technically shouldn't be here normally
I'd actually have a cold desert here but
just for the sake of a messing with some
stuff right now I had that said to the
tundra to show off a cold desert it's
kinda like this one bahasa Mike it's
more of a sandy desert and has I got
white sound of it yeah indeed
if I keep looking around my fine what's
this one other grasslands there's
actually a few biomes right now that
look the same as grasslands because I
haven't set them all yet yeah
oh why should we go over here we find
he's savanna biome this one's also quite
common as well but this is kind of like
a drier version of the grasslands kind
of the same temperature but much drier
and you get these kind of like trees
these are based off acacia trees they
are very very basic right now but
they're just kind of placeholder but no
it also had the new wood block which is
nice I do have to change the leaves
though yeah and the grass you know is
kind of brighter and stuff so like
there's actually a lot of types of grass
and dirt blocks because of all the
different biomes I don't tint them like
I actually make separate blocks film so
oh that dirts wrong whoops
who didn't see that I just need to
change that in this box office he said
that in normal dirt oh and actually over
here it doesn't look like much right now
but this is a tropical evergreen forest
and the forest biomes I haven't done the
tree distribution yet in the biomes so
right now they all can have the same of
the trees but in the future and biomes
that say far as to have a lot of trees
and this will have kind of like you know
a big kind of jungle trees so dug be
nice and the grass is really lush so
yeah so that's kind of like a brief
overview of a bunch of the biomes and
they're all very natural right now like
down the road I'll add more like you
know kind of unnatural biomes like I
really want to have say biomes that are
based off of like factors other than
winter like gameplay features like say a
spooky biome and stuff like that you
know that'd be cool booyah that's pretty
much it for now guys I can't just want
to show this off just because as I said
right after the last video I changed
everything so I thought I should do a
quick update bird aim yeah that's that
one also the game's doing much faster
now
so yeah that's good this is actually the
large render distance and this gives me
like this is 35 FPS on fraps you know
without fraps it's like 50 so that's
pretty good eeen so that's all for now
guys and good day